# Backend

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) command line interface (CLI). It includes the following files and folders:

- `src` - Code for the application's Lambda function.
- `events` - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- `__tests__` - Unit and integration tests for the application code.
- `template.yaml` - The template that defines the application's AWS resources.

This application uses several AWS resources, including Lambda functions, an API Gateway API, and Amazon DynamoDB tables. These resources are defined in the `template.yaml` file in this project.

## Use the AWS SAM CLI to test locally

Build your application by using the `sam build` command. However, i would not recommend it as if you use this way you will need to build it each time you make a change. i have configured the dev container o allow running the ui and backend at the same time for local running.

When you build the AWS SAM CLI installs dependencies that are defined in `package.json`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

You can test a single function by invoking it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

So far i have made these but i don't know if they work as i haven't tried them.

```bash
backend$ sam local invoke getUsers --event events/userFunctions/getUsers.json
```

The AWS SAM CLI can also emulate your application's API. Use the `npm run local` command to run the API locally on port 3001 from inside the dev container.

Then you can setup postman or something similar to test your local backend

## Add a resource to your application

The application template uses AWS SAM to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources, such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources that aren't included in the [AWS SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use the standard [AWS CloudFormation resource types](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html).

Any additional resource must be in the free tier or signed off by me as i am the one paying for it at the end of the day

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, the AWS SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs that are generated by your Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

**NOTE:** This command works for all Lambda functions, not just the ones you deploy using AWS SAM.

```bash
my-application$ sam logs -n putItemFunction --stack-name sam-app --tail
```

**NOTE:** This uses the logical name of the function within the stack. This is the correct name to use when searching logs inside an AWS Lambda function within a CloudFormation stack, even if the deployed function name varies due to CloudFormation's unique resource name generation.

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [AWS SAM CLI documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Resources

For an introduction to the AWS SAM specification, the AWS SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts, see the [AWS SAM Developer Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html).

Next, you can use the AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy ready-to-use apps that go beyond Hello World samples and learn how authors developed their applications. For more information, see the [AWS Serverless Application Repository main page](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/) and the [AWS Serverless Application Repository Developer Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverlessrepo/latest/devguide/what-is-serverlessrepo.html).

## DB Table Layout

Due to how Dynamo DB is a NoSql DB and we are trying to use it as one as it is in the free tier. All data entries must strictly follow the specification. If specification changes all data must be updated accordingly.

Ids are generated using uuid version 4 for randomness
dateTimes are nodes new Date().toISOString() output `2024-06-07T12:00:00.000Z`

### Events Table:

| Column Name        | Type     | Relationship |
| ------------------ | -------- | ------------ |
| eventId            | string   | Primary Key  |
| ------------------ | -------- | ------------ |
| startDate          | dateTime | Required     |
| endDate            | dateTime | Required     |
| requiredWalkers    | integer  | Required     |
| requiredVolunteers | integer  | Required     |
| earlyBirdPrice     | integer  | Required     |
| earlyBirdCutoff    | dateTime | Required     |
| price              | integer  | Required     |

### Teams Table:

| Column Name          | Type    | Relationship |
| -------------------- | ------- | ------------ |
| teamId               | string  | Primary Key  |
| -------------------- | ------  | ------------ |
| teamName             | string  | Required     |
| volunteer            | boolean | Optional     |

### Team Members Table:

| Column Name            | Type                      | Relationship  |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------- |
| teamId                 | string                    | Primary Key   |
| memberId               | string                    | Secondary Key |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------- |
| additionalRequirements | string                    | Optional      |
| volunteer              | boolean                   | Optional      |

### Entries Table:

do not enter a value if there is no data for the times
enter as many times as there are checkpoints but follow the format

| Column Name | Type     | Relationship  |
| ----------- | -------- | ------------- |
| eventId     | string   | Primary Key   |
| teamId      | string   | Secondary Key |
| ----------- | -------  | ------------- |
| cost        | integer  | Required      |
| paid        | integer  | Required      |
| start       | dateTime | Optional      |
| checkpoint1 | dateTime | Optional      |
| checkpoint2 | dateTime | Optional      |
| checkpoint3 | dateTime | Optional      |
| checkpointX | dateTime | Optional      |
| end         | dateTime | Optional      |
